so hello everybody my name is J I'm one
of the expert TOEFL teachers here at e
to language what we're going to do in
this live class is TOEFL writing task
number one which is the integrated essay
let's get started so in today's class
firstly I'm going to describe the task
to you we're going to talk about the
importance of note-taking and we will do
some note-taking practice I'm going to
show you a suggested structure that you
can take with you on test a in your
brain so it's not cheating it's not in
your pocket it'll be in your brain then
we're actually going to write one of
these integrated essays because the only
way to do this is to actually do it hmm
should I say the only way to improve the
only way to gain confidence is to do it
and once you've done this once using
this suggested structure your confidence
will increase enormous ly because it
seems difficult but what I'll show you
will make it a lot simpler okay which is
good first of all let me describe the
task to you this is the screen shot of
the actual TOEFL so these are the
instructions that you will see on test
day let's read them now because you
don't want to be reading these on test
day and getting confused let me read
this it says for this task you read a
passage about an academic topic a clock
at the top of the screen shows how much
time you have to read you can take notes
on the passage of all you read the
passage is then removed and you listen
to a lecture on the same topic while you
listen you can also take notes you'll be
able to see the reading passage again
actually don't worry too much about this
I'm just going to show you in a second
the important information here is that
you have 20 minutes to write between 150
and 225 words that's the critical stuff
here there's also another important
point here which is this this question
does not ask you to express your
personal opinion so what you're in
effect doing is this you're going to
read a passage the passage will have
three points three main paragraphs about
three different ideas okay then you're
going to hear a lecture the lecture will
also have three main points and the
lecture will contradict or say something
different to what is in the reading
passage now you can take notes on the
reading I'll show you in a second you
certainly need to take notes on the
listening then what you'll do is you'll
turn your notes into that summary okay
cool let me show you actually what it
looks like so it looks like this on test
day on the left hand side that big chunk
of text is the reading passage and you
can sort of see here that it's got three
main paragraphs if you like this one
there's two there's three okay so we can
assume that the listening which you will
hear will also have one two and three
and it will contradict or say something
different about these ideas this is what
the lecture will look like you'll see a
picture and you'll hear audio okay then
it will return to this page here where
you'll see the reading passage again but
this time importantly there's a question
that appears and here is actually where
you write your integrated summary the
questions does this and you need to read
the question because they differ from
test to test this one says summarize the
points made in the lecture you just
heard explaining how they cast doubt on
points made in the reading ultimately
that means explain how the listening was
different from the reading explain how
the lecture differs from the ideas in
the reading cool let's talk about
note-taking because I think that
note-taking is probably the most
important part here really because you
get to keep the reading passage you can
refer back to that reading passage but
you cannot refer back to the listening
because it disappears and if you don't
have any notes then you're well let's
just say you're gonna have problems
so take notes while you listen note down
main ideas and details from the lecture
personally I think writing down as much
as you possibly can is probably the best
idea
I wouldn't be skinny in what I write
down I would listen very carefully and I
would just write down those main ideas
I'll show you a little structure for how
to do this in a second okay
you'll hear the audio once you reuse the
information from your listening notes to
write your essay the reading passage
will be displayed on the left of the
screen to see as you write this is a
good little template you can use to
write notes of course you don't need to
write all their headings and whatnot but
basically you need to on the left hand
side write main ideas on the right hand
side write details and try to get try to
get one main idea in three details while
you're listening one main idea three
details one main idea three details
because remember in the reading passage
there will be the same number of main
ideas and you can refer back to for
those details so for example your notes
may look like this number one says
specialization details doesn't improve
economy unbalanced economic development
now
when your note-taking you're not going
to be able to write complete sentences
you may have to write abbreviated words
like economic development you might even
use symbols like offshoring equals
cheaper you have to write quickly you
may even use smiley faces for example
developed country is happy developing
countries unhappy for example and you
may just use single words where you
summarize a point into a single word
which you will then use this in your
summary okay here's the suggested
structure that we think you should take
with you on test day and this is what
you certainly shouldn't practice by the
way if you do need practice materials
and if you want to go a step further and
take tutorials and get feedback on your
writing and speaking then check out eetu
language comm it's the website
associated with this YouTube channel got
excellent online course so we've got
live group classes we've got tutorials
with expert teachers and feedback on
your right
and speaking so if you want to really
want to make sure that you get the score
you need check out the website ok you
can see the details in the description
below use the suggested structure now
this may look intimidating when you
first see it but trust me once you write
this once or twice that's not okay let
me just quickly take you through this so
you want to have an introductory
sentence while the passage states that
blood the lecture expresses a different
point of view okay you can just memorize
that if you like so while the passive
states that I don't know
eating chocolate is good for you the
Lecter Express is a different point of
view while the passage states that
exercising is a waste of time the
lecture expresses a different point of
view while the passive states that
smoking is good for your health the
lecture blah blah you get it then you
want to write your first second and
third paragraph there's a few things
going on here first the passage claims
that first main idea the reading claims
that first main idea it argues that
details however the lecture states that
opposing main idea this is evident in
details second the passage asserts that
second main idea you get the point
now you don't need to memorize this
structure or this template word-for-word
what you need to do is just practice
using it a few times and you will
automatically sort of well memorize it /
create your own anywhere let's just have
a closer look at some of the verbs and
some of the reasons why we write it this
way so if we look at the verbs here you
can see that they're in the present
simple while the passive states the
lecture expresses so we're using these
reporting verbs a very nice academic way
to write the passage claims it argues
however the lecture states the passage
asserts the lecture states the passage
argues the lecture states so we've used
a range of different verbs expresses
States claims etc
use whoops sorry argues and we've used
them all in the present simple you can
see that the S on the end of the verb
there so you should keep your verb tense
in the present simple like this in
addition to we've also got some passive
verbs as well is supported by is
supported by is supported by ok so you
want to include a few passive sentences
as well third thing we have embedded in
our structure our discourse markers
while 1st 2nd 3rd this contradicts
however in contrast etc we want to use
these within our paragraphs to help
structure our writing ok
now it's time to do it I feel like I've
given you a good little description of
the task if you want I'm gonna go back
and show you the structure again you can
take a photo on your phone and you can
use this so take a quick screenshot or
photo with your camera on your phone and
you can use that in a minute when we
write our integrated summary cool
alright just before we do this I'm just
gonna go back to the live class cool so
working well let me just for those of
you those of you in the live class
sometimes my camera doesn't form at on
your screen properly so I'm gonna put a
link into the chat the link is to the
YouTube live page so you can watch this
live on YouTube live and it will format
properly on your screen ok I don't know
if that's happening to you all right
cool let's go back we're about to right
here we go step one you can have two
minutes to read the passage you can't
take notes if you want I suggest that
you do your two minutes to read this
passage starts now
you
okay you've read the passage it's all
good it's not going to disappear you're
going to see it in a minute
what happens next is really important
this is the note-taking section the
listening so you definitely need to have
a pen and paper already you're going to
take as many notes as you possibly can
thinking about main ideas and details
for each of those three sections here we
go step two listen and take notes three
- wait wait wait wait let me turn the
volume up here look I can't here we go
three two one
free trade supposedly improves national
economies by creating an international
division of labor but the truth is it
doesn't the idea that countries
specialize in producing particular Goods
doesn't bode well for countries because
it results in unbalanced economic
development for instance while some
industries will prosper others will be
neglected and flounder history has also
shown us that free trade agreements
negatively affect employment the main
reason for this is that manufacturers
don't necessarily employ local people
and they don't necessarily build their
factories on shore what tends to happen
is that they find the cheapest option
which is usually offshore production and
labor a lot of free trade proponents
purport that free trade raises standards
of living around the world but this is
not quite right in fact it usually only
favors rich countries poorer developing
countries usually bear the brunt of free
trade agreements because they are the
ones who produce the goods at the
rock-bottom prices and do not
participate in the economic benefits
okey-dokey step three you're going to
write instead of 20 minutes though I'm
only going to give you ten minutes to
write your summary starting now
you
cool well that was ten minutes remember
in the actual TOEFL exam you'll have 20
minutes I have the time making it much
more difficult but if you do have a
structure like the one that I showed you
earlier a template if you will and you
take that in you practice it and you
memorize it or you don't to memorize it
word-for-word but something similar and
you take it with you into your exam it
will make your life a lot easier than
trying to come up with something on the
spot
cool let's have a look at a model essay
I'm going to show you the one that I
wrote which is good let's have a look so
a model essay so I'm just gonna read in
mind this is 203 words see if I want to
double check a couple of things I want
to see if you used a similar structure
with the introductory sentence and three
paragraphs within each paragraph it has
the idea from the reading passage
contrasting the idea from the listening
passage with main idea and details yes
see if you also use the similar verbs as
me so I said well the passage states
that free trade is advantageous lecture
expresses a different point of view so
from the reading passage the main
overall idea was that free trade is a
good thing or advantageous and the
listening expressed and a contrarian a
different point of view at the the
opposite it said it's not at its
disadvantageous if you will first the
passage claims that free trade means
that each country will specialize in
certain production main idea details
leading to efficient utilization of
resources it argues exists that this
will lead to economic growth listening
contradictory idea however the lecture
states that too much specialization will
result in unequal economic and
industrial development so I've got the
two ideas side by side in the one
paragraph paragraph to second the
passage asserts that free trade will
create more opportunities for employment
as a result of increased production
details this is supported by the claims
that a larger labor
force will be needed to meet the global
demand for goods and services lecture
this contradicts the lecture which
states local jobs may be compromised by
free trade details this is supported by
evidence that many manufacturers choose
to employ offshore or foreign workers
due to cheap belabour club costs that
second paragraph was about employment
the reading passage suggested that it
was good for employment the lectures
suggested that it was bad for employment
last one paragraph three third the
passage argues that free trade will
increase national prosperity in the
standard of living globally however the
lecture states that in contrast it will
create poorer conditions for people
around the world details this is
supported by the assertion that many
multinational companies hire workers in
developing countries under exploitative
conditions and that these countries do
not benefit economically from free trade
that's two hundred and three words that
would result in a top score four TOEFL
writing so hopefully yours looked
something similar to that cool guys if
you need help with your TOEFL in any
which way you might want to go into e2
language sign up for free account you
can then if you or if you if you need
extra help you can sign up to a paid
account for tutorials one on one 45
minute tutorials with experts feedback
on your essay if you don't know if
you've done it well or whatever we will
give you feedback practice material good
quality practice material that resembles
the real thing you'll see on test day as
well as you can join in these live
classes I might also suggest if you're
on YouTube and you're watching this
click the like button leave a lovely
comment I like lovely comments they're
nice cool I'm just gonna go and answer a
few questions in the chat then I think
I'm gonna go and have some lunch so what
have we got nice
okay so a few people have put their
notes into the chat that's good
good question do you need to count each
word no it automatically counts the
words for you you'll see it on the
screen your word count you do not have
to count each word which saves a lot of
time good question
any other questions any other questions
no other questions cool anyway I think
that's probably well I think both
writing tasks are tricky the independent
one I think if you learn the structure
for the independent one it makes it a
lot easier this one's tough because it
requires different skills that requires
reading skills listening skills
obviously but I think most importantly
the note-taking skills so if you can
combine all of those it will make it
your life a lot easier alright cool
I think that's all thanks very much for
coming along I appreciate it
don't forget to check out eetu language
comm if you need some help sign it up
for free
see you guys soon
you